## React Essentials

1. Server Components

- Thinking in Server Components

- Why Server Components?

2. Client Components

- The "use client" directive

  With Next.js, Client Components is pre-rendered on the server and hydrated on the client.
  "use client" does not need to be defined in every file.The Client module boundary only needs to be defined once, at the "entry point", for all modules imported into it to be considered a Client Component.

3.  When to use Server and Client Components?

4.  Patterns

- Moving Client Components to the Leaves

- Composing Client and Server Components

- Nesting Server Components inside Client Components

  Unsupported Pattern: Importing Server Components into Client Components.

  Recommended Pattern: Passing Server Components to Client Components as Props.

- Passing props from Server to Client Components (Serialization)

- Keeping Server-Only Code out of Client Components (Poisoning)

- The "server only" package

```
npm install server-only

Then import the package into any module that contains server-only code:

import 'server-only';

export async function getData() {
  const res = await fetch('https://external-service.com/data', {
    headers: {
      authorization: process.env.API_KEY,
    },
  });

  return res.json();
}

The corresponding package client-only can be used to mark modules that contain client-only code – for example, code that accesses the window object.
```

- Data Fetching

- Third-party packages

  Since Server Components are new, third-party packages in the ecosystem are just beginning to add the "use client" directive to components that use client-only features like useState, useEffect, and createContext.

  Today, many components from npm packages that use client-only features do not yet have the directive. These third-party components will work as expected within your own Client Components since they have the "use client" directive, but they won't work within Server Components.

  To fix this, you can wrap third-party components that rely on client-only features in your own Client Components:

5. Context

- Using context in Client Components

  Context providers are typically rendered near the root of an application to share global concerns, like the current theme. Because context is not supported in Server Components, trying to create a context at the root of your application will cause an error:

  To fix this, create your context and render its provider inside of a Client Component.

- Rendering third-party context providers in Server Components

- Sharing data between Server Components

- Sharing fetch requests between Server Components
