# Responding to Events

Event handlers are your own functions that will be triggered in response to interactions like clicking, hovering, focusing form inputs, and so on.

## Adding event handlers

**Pitfall**: Functions passed to event handlers must be passed, not called. For example:
When you call a function using (), it fires the function immediately during rendering, without any clicks. This is because JavaScript inside the JSX { and } executes right away.

## Reading props in event handlers

No Paragraph Found

## Passing event handlers as props

No Paragraph Found

## Naming event handler props 

No Paragraph Found

## Event propagation

**Pitfall** : All events propagate in React except onScroll, which only works on the JSX tag you attach it to. The onScroll event is a bit different. While it does propagate in React like other events, it is not triggered on the root element, but rather on the element that is actually being scrolled. This means that if you attach an onScroll event handler to a parent element, it will not be triggered when a child element within it is scrolled.


## Stopping propagation

e.stopPropagation() - preventing the event from bubbling further.

**Deep Dive**: Capture phase events (No Paragraph found)

## Passing handlers as alternative to propagation 

No Paragraph Found

## Preventing default behavior 

e.stopPropagation() stops the event handlers attached to the tags above from firing.
e.preventDefault() prevents the default browser behavior for the few events that have it.

## Can event handlers have side effects?

No Paragraph Found



