# Synchronizing with Effects

Effects let you specify side effects that are caused by rendering itself, rather than by a particular event. 

## What are Effects and how are they different from events? 

Effect refers to side effect caused by rendering. 

## You might not need an Effect 

Effect are used to synchronize your component with some external system example, interacting third-party API, network, etc

## How to write an Effect 

**Pitfall** : No Paragraph Found

```
useEffect(() => {
  // This runs after every render
});

useEffect(() => {
  // This runs only on mount (when the component appears)
}, []);

useEffect(() => {
  // This runs on mount *and also* if either a or b have changed since the last render
}, [a, b]);
```

**Deep Dive** :  Why was the ref omitted from the dependency array? 
This Effect uses both ref and isPlaying, but only isPlaying is declared as a dependency:
This is because the ref object has a stable identity: React guarantees you’ll always get the same object from the same useRef call on every render. It never changes, so it will never by itself cause the Effect to re-run. Therefore, it does not matter whether you include it or not. Including it is fine too:

**React will call your cleanup function each time before the Effect runs again, and one final time when the component unmounts (gets removed).**

## How to handle the Effect firing twice in development?

No Paragraph Found

## Controlling non-React widgets

No Paragraph Found

## Subscribing to events 

```
function handleScroll(e) {
    console.log(window.scrollX, window.scrollY);
  }

useEffect(() => {
  window.addEventListener('scroll', handleScroll);
  return () => window.removeEventListener('scroll', handleScroll);
}, []);
```
## Triggering animations 

No Paragraph Found

## Fetching data

**DEEP DIVE** : What are good alternatives to data fetching in Effects? (No Paragraph Found)

## Sending analytics

No Paragraph Found

## Not an Effect: Initializing the application

No Paragraph Found

## Not an Effect: Buying a product 

No Paragraph Found

## Putting it all together

**Deep Dive** : Each render has its own Effects.



