# Lifecycle of Reactive Effects

Effects have a different lifecycle from components.

Components may 
1. mount
2. update
3. unmount.

An Effect can only do two things.
1. To start synchronizing something.
2. Later to stop synchronizing it.

## The lifecycle of an Effect 

Every React component goes through the same lifecycle:

1. A component mounts when it’s added to the screen.
2. A component updates when it receives new props or state, usually in response to an interaction.
3. A component unmounts when it’s removed from the screen.

## Why synchronization may need to happen more than once 

No Paragraph Found

## How React re-synchronizes your Effect

No Paragraph Found

## Thinking from the Effect’s perspective

No Paragraph Found

## How React verifies that your Effect can re-synchronize

No Paragraph Found

## Each Effect represents a separate synchronization process

Each Effect in your code should represent a separate and independent synchronization process.

## Effects “react” to reactive values

No Paragraph Found

## What an Effect with empty dependencies means

No Paragraph Found

## All variables declared in the component body are reactive 

**Deep Dive** : Can global or mutable values be dependencies? 
Mutable values (including global variables) aren’t reactive.

A mutable value like location.pathname can’t be a dependency. It’s mutable, so it can change at any time completely outside of the React rendering data flow. Changing it wouldn’t trigger a re-render of your component.

A mutable value like ref.current or things you read from it also can’t be a dependency.

## React verifies that you specified every reactive value as a dependency 

No Paragraph Found

## What to do when you don’t want to re-synchronize

Set variable to be a global variable or not reactive or You can also move them inside the Effect.
```
const serverUrl = 'https://localhost:1234'; // serverUrl is not reactive
const roomId = 'general'; // roomId is not reactive

function ChatRoom() {
  useEffect(() => {
    const connection = createConnection(serverUrl, roomId);
    connection.connect();
    return () => {
      connection.disconnect();
    };
  }, []); // ✅ All dependencies declared
  // ...
}
```

**Pitfall** : (No Paragraph Found)