# Preserving and Resetting State

State is isolated between components. React keeps track of which state belongs to which component based on their place in the UI tree. You can control when to preserve state and when to reset it between re-renders.

## The UI tree

React uses tree structures to manage and model the UI. React makes UI trees from your JSX. Then React DOM updates the browser DOM elements to match that UI tree.

## State is tied to a position in the tree

When react removes a component, it destroys its state. React preserves a component’s state for as long as it’s being rendered at its position in the UI tree.

## Same component at the same position preserves state 

**Pitfall**: It’s the position in the UI tree—not in the JSX markup—that matters to React!

## Different components at the same position reset state

When you render a different component in the same position, it resets the state of its entire subtree.
That is why you should not nest component function definitions.
Each time your component re-render the nested component will be re-creacted everytime and it will be different from the previous component, since it will be at same position it will still be different and will reset the state every time the component re-render.

## Resetting state at the same position

Give each component an explicit identity with key

**Note** : Remember that keys are not globally unique. They only specify the position within the parent.

## Resetting a form with a key

**Preserving state for removed components** :(No Paragraph Found)


